\documentclass[letterpaper,twocolumn,10pt]{article}
\usepackage[bookmarks,colorlinks=true]{hyperref}

\newcommand{\mlist}[1]{\begin{itemize}#1\end{itemize}}

\begin{document}

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% Metadata
%

	\title{\Large \bf
		Towards Ubiquitous OpenPGP Hardware
	}

	\date{October 13, 2013}

	\author{
		Matt Monaco \\
		\texttt{matthew.monaco@colorado.edu}
		\and
		Andy Sayler \\
		\texttt{andrew.sayler@colorado.edu}
	}

	\maketitle

\begin{abstract}

Public key cryptography and the OpenPGP protocol~\cite{rfc4880} are technologies
which offer advantages in both security and convenience over symmetric
encryption schemes, traditional identification schemes, and certification
systems. Hardware support for OpenPGP in the form of smartcard and USB devices
allows it to be used by the layperson in fairly wide range of settings from
single sign on (SSO) to email security to physical access in enterprise
environments. However, OpenPGP hardware is still a niche market, mainly in large
enterprises.

We believe the power and flexibility of OpenPGP should be ubiquitous, replacing
a multitude of disparate systems and protocols used by individuals, small to
enterprise businesses, and governments. Furthermore, we believe the main
hindrance to OpenPGP's widespread adoption is the lack of fully featured and
accessible hardware. In this paper, we explore the current hardware offerings
and their limitations. Additionally, we look forward to the role public key
cryptography and OpenPGP might play given widespread adoption.

\end{abstract}

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% Main
%

\section{Proposal}

For our project we would like to: provide a brief overview of the functionality
of OpenPGP; take a survey of current hardware, firmware, and software which
supports OpenPGP; investigate extends to the OpenPGP protocol which might be
required to make it universally useful; and pinpoint major use-cases for systems
which public key cryptography can replace, and likely even improve.

Our initial investigation into OpenPGP hardware has turned up offerings which
all have at least one major limitation. Typically this is in the amount of key
material that they are able to store. However, other limitations include the
number of keys (regardless of size) that can be stored, the interface, cost, and
advanced features such as key generation, temper-resistance, companion RFID
chipsets.

Hardware which we would consider perfect would have the following properties:

\mlist{
	\item Support three to four 4096 bit master and sub-keys
	\item Support multiple encryption algorithms, but at least RSA
	\item Have a completely open specification so that users my trust built in...
	\item Support for key generation
	\item Be tamper resistant; self-destruct in the face of forensic analysis
	\item Have a USB interface, possibly exposing itself as a smartcard
	     \textit{reader} with attached smartcard
}

We will explore the open source YubiKey NEO~\cite{yubikey}, offered by Yubico, a
company which offers small USB-based security products.

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%
% Refs, etc
%

	\footnotesize
	\bibliographystyle{abbrv}
	\bibliography{refs}

\end{document}

% vim: set noet : %
